In this section, we are going to interact with the inputs and those interactions feel change buttons
enabled disabled state.
In this form.
The button is disabled initially and let's make sure it is enabled after a user enters same values for
password and password.
Repeat inputs.
Now let's add a test for this one.
So in sign up component spec, I'm going to add the new test.
But before adding new one, I'm going to add a new describe log.
So the existing tests were about the layout just collapsing this one and after that adding a new one.
And this is for interactions.
And our first test is it enables the button when the password and password repeat fields have same value.
So we will be querying the elements and then we will set values for them and we can use our previous
tests.
Like in each test we have this sign up like we are getting the native element and then we are querying
the.
Elements from the sign up.
So we will do the same thing.
First is this is for let's say this is for password input and we will get.
Passwords, repeat input which has the ID password repeat.
Now we are going to set values for these inputs and we can do it like this password input value.
It has this value attribute and let's say this is going to be password.
By the way, this is showing an error because at the moment it doesn't know the type of this element.
To resolve this.
We can cast this one to HDMI input element and we will do the same thing for password repeat input as
well.
So we are setting value.
Then we are going to dispatch an event so that we can listen.
Something is changed in this input and we can get the value from it and we will do a password input
dispatch event and we will dispatch a new event.
And this event is going to be input.
So this is the events being triggered by the input elements whenever a user types anything.
It is actually dispatching this event and in the test we are mimicking that behavior.
We do those step in programmatically.
And we will repeat the same thing for password repeat input.
So just copying this, the password input steps and.
Changing it for the passwords.
Repeat.
So we set.
Same value for both of these inputs, then we are going to check the the button disabled attribute.
Basically, we can get the button.
Like this.
So we get the button, then we check if the button disabled attribute.
But this time we expect this to be.
Falsey.
So initially, this is the initial case where we don't have any value set for these inputs.
We expect this button to be disabled, this disabled attribute to be having the security value.
But in this test we are feeling these inputs and we are expecting this disabled to be false.
So it shouldn't be disabled.
By the way, in this test, we have a missing step right here.
We will add a step in between the changes and querying the button.
We will get to that.
But let's assume the test is okay.
So before saving the change here, switching to the karma window and saving the changes.
Tests are executed again.
And if we check the spec list here, we see our test is failing and the failure is basically we are
expecting this value to be false, but it is true.
Now let's fix this.
Now we need to get the values of these inputs, the password and the password repeat.
And we will act based on the values and we will update this buttons disabled status.
First of all, we must be able to dynamically set this disabled attribute.
By the way, switching back to the application, because our change will have effect right here.
So to have dynamic value for this disabled attribute of the button, we need to keep track of the state
in the component.
And basically in component we can have let's open the component, sign up.
The Yes, right here in the component, we can have properties and let's say we will have property named
as disabled.
And initially let's say this is going to be true.
So this property can be used for tracking the buttons disabled state and we can use this property in
the template.
And right here we can tell this disabled value must be coming from this property and this is called
this property binding.
So we are saying that this buttons disabled attribute.
Is going to be taking value from disabled property in the class.
So the syntax is like this.
This is called this property binding and the disabled attribute of the button will have the value of
the disabled property in the class.
So if we save these changes.
We don't see any change right here because this is, I think, the true values or the button is disabled.
But if we change it to false.
Now we see the button is enabled.
So basically we will use this one, we will update this value.
Then it's going to be updating corresponding elements state.
Now we need to make sure that user enters same values for password and password repeat before changing
this value to false.
And one way to do this is to listen the events triggered in these inputs, and we can have event listener
functions in the component.
Let's have one.
Let's say we have a function on change password.
And we can call this function when whenever, for instance, this input has changed.
Remember in the test we are dispatching this input event, which is actually the event is triggered
from the component in browser too.
So here in the.
The template.
We can associate the events with our functions right here.
And this is called this event binding.
So we are.
Event binding syntax is in parentheses.
We give the event name we are looking for and we are going to get the input events and then we assign
the event listener and that event listener is on change password.
So whenever this input has any input events, our function will be called.
But we need to know the details of this component so that we can access its value attribute to get the
value user entered.
And to do that, we can call this function by passing.
Actual event object.
So this is the event generated by this input element.
So whenever we type something here, it's generating an event.
This is the input event and it is calling this own change password with that event object.
And here in Don't Change Password, we can take the event.
Then from this event we can get the target.
The target is the input element.
So let's have the casting as HTML.
Important event.
And from this one we can get the value.
So this is the value in the password input.
And we can use again a class property and let's say we have the password and initially it is empty and
after the events coming from the password input, we will just update the password with the value of
that element and we can do the same thing for the one change password.
Repeat.
So let's say password repeat and we are going to update the password repeat field we have here.
And.
We will.
Again bind the input event here and we are going to call on change password repeat because this is the
password repeat input.
So with this way, we will be able to get the values of these inputs.
Then we can use these functions again and update this disabled.
So we can say this disabled is the expression, this password.
If it is not equal to this password repeat, then this is going to be true, which will make the button
disabled.
And we will do the same thing here as well.
So it's not just updating the password, but also updating this disabled.
And since disabled is updated, that is going to be changed the disabled status of the button.
But let's correct this part.
Initially, the button will be disabled, so let's set it back to true and let's save these changes.
Now in browser the button is disabled and if I type anything here, let's say this is a and I type same
thing to the password repeat.
Now we see the button is enabled but if I type anything else the there's a mismatch and the button is
disabled.
So this is working.
But let's check the karma window here we see the interactions test is failing.
We have verified that it is working in browser but this one is failing.
So if you remember I mentioned about the missing part in the test and that part is.
Actually in in the before each here we see that one this fixture that changes is the one we need to
do here as well.
So Angular is by default not applying the UI changes immediately in the test.
So it allows us a delayed change detection and this is intentional and it gives us the opportunity to
inspect the state of the component before Angular initiates that are binding or the lifecycle hooks
those things.
So here we are going to tell Angular to update the UI and we do that by calling fixture detect changes.
So let's save this one.
Now the test is passing.
So in cases like where our events trigger UI changes, then we should be calling this fixture detect
changes to update the UI.
So we fixed the test.
But we can do better with the implementation.
We are repeating ourselves here.
Now the disabled property is not necessary anymore.
Instead of having disabled here, let's remove this.
And here in the template, we can use the the password and password to repeat equality.
So we, we can have an expression here and we can basically say if password is not equal to password,
repeat.
So saving these changes.
Now we have a failure and that one is our layout test.
It disables the button initially.
So this one is failing because initially the password and password repeat are same.
So when they are same, the button is not disabled.
So let's enhance this expression instead of directly checking their equality, let's make sure at least
the password or password repeat has a value so we can do something like this.
If password has value, then let's do this.
Expiration.
Otherwise, let's make sure this button is disabled.
So if we don't set any value for a password and let's say the button will be disabled, let's save this
one.
And this is working.
But having this expression right here makes this code a bit harder to read.
So let's apply the style guides of the Angular, and let's put the presentation logic into components.
So what I will do is I'm just cutting this part.
And here in the component, I will have a function that's called this one is disabled.
And basically this is going to be a returning this expression, but we need to refer to the variables
with this here, this password.
This password and this password repeat.
Now in the template we can just call is disabled and let's say these changes.
And the tests are passing, by the way.
Angular has built in form solutions, template driven and reactive forms.
At the moment we are not using any of them.
Currently, what we are doing is almost similar to what we would do in react or view projects, but
we will refactor our form to angular forms later.
At that moment we won't be updating our tests.
In fact, our tests will verify that our refactor is not breaking anything.